We included nine trials involving 3137 participants.
We did not identify any new trials for inclusion in this updated review.
None of the studies reported data on the primary outcome in sufficient detail to enable us to analyse the results.
Overall, the included studies had a moderate risk of bias.
There was no evidence of an effect of LMWH or heparinoids on death from all causes during the treatment period.
Four studies (five articles) met the inclusion criteria for this review; three of which were randomised controlled trials and one was a quasi-randomised controlled trial.
The trials were published between 1980 and 1990.
We assessed the quality of the evidence as high for the outcomes of major disability, multiple disability, and disability or death.
We rated the evidence for the outcomes of shunt insertion, and death or shunt insertion as of moderate quality.
We identified 18 trials in which a total of 1456 preterm infants were studied.
These trials were generally small and methodologically weak.
Few data on growth and developmental outcomes assessed beyond infancy are available, and these do not show effects of multi-nutrient fortification.
Feeding preterm infants with multi-nutrient fortified human breast milk compared with unfortified human breast milk is associated with modest increases in in-hospital growth rates.
We found 14 studies that compared hypnotherapy with 22 different control interventions.
The studies included a total of 1926 participants.
Studies were diverse and a single meta-analysis was not possible.
When hypnotherapy was evaluated as an adjunct to other treatments, the pooled result from five studies showed a beneficial effect of hypnotherapy (224 participants), but this should be interpreted with caution due to the high risk of bias across studies.
One study that collected data on adverse events did not find a statistically significant difference between hypnotherapy and relaxation.
We need more research to determine whether hypnotherapy is more effective for smoking cessation than other forms of behavioural support or unassisted quitting.
If a benefit is present, current evidence suggests the benefit is small at most.
Further large, high-quality randomised controlled trials, and more comprehensive assessments of safety, are needed on this topic.
We found 15 studies with a total of 1043 people.
When comparing CBT with usual care (six studies, 373 participants), participants in the CBT group showed significantly less fatigue, with 40% of CBT participants showing evidence of clinical response in contrast with 26% in usual care.
Findings at follow-up were inconsistent.
For CBT versus other psychological therapies, comprising relaxation, counselling and education/support, the difference in fatigue mean scores at post-treatment favoured CBT.
Findings at follow-up were heterogeneous and inconsistent.
Only two studies compared CBT against other interventions and one study compared CBT in combination with other interventions against usual care.
Further research is required to establish the effectiveness of CBT alone or in combination with other treatments for CFS.
We included 22 trials with a total of 5578 infants.
Fifteen trials (3492 infants) assessed the effect of topical plant or vegetable oils.
Most of these trials were undertaken in low- or middle-income countries and were based in healthcare facilities.
One large (2249 infants) community-based trial occurred in a rural field practice in India.
Oils may reduce the risk of developing an invasive infection, but appear to have little or no effect on mortality.
The level of certainty about the effects of emollient therapy on death or severe infection in preterm infants is low.
Since these interventions are mostly inexpensive, readily accessible, and generally acceptable, further good-quality randomised controlled trials in healthcare facilities, and in community settings in low- or middle-income countries, may be justified.
We found 12 randomised controlled trials (RCTs) that included a total of 843 patients.
The size of the randomised clinical trials ranged from 30 to 155 patients.
Four of the twelve trials reported survival benefit at five years when given adjuvant or neoadjuvant therapy.
Disease-free survival was reported in nine trials, and the estimated hazard ratios show that disease-free survival was significant in two trials at five years.
These two trials had not shown a survival advantage, but the recurrence was significantly lower in patients given adjuvant or neoadjuvant therapy.
The highest toxicity rate was in a trial using oral 1-hexylcarbamoyl 5-fluorouracil which resulted in 12 out of 38 patients being withdrawn from the trial because of adverse events.
There is no clear evidence for the efficacy of any of the adjuvant (treatment given after initial treatment) and neo-adjuvant (treatment given before initial treatment) protocols reviewed.
We found 12 trials with 7,119 participants.
Five trials randomised women to either immediate or delayed insertion of IUD.
Moderate quality evidence indicates that use and expulsion of the levonorgestrel-releasing intrauterine system or the copper T380A was more likely for immediate insertion compared to delayed insertion.
Another trial randomised to levonorgestrel IUD or Nova T showed that discontinuation rates due to pregnancy were likely to be higher for women in the Nova T group.
Seven studies compared IUDs inserted immediately after intercourse (intrauterine insertion only), compared with IUDs inserted after the time of intercourse (delayed insertion).
From meta-analysis of two studies, pregnancy was less likely for the TCu 220C versus the Lippes Loop, and expulsion was less likely for the TCu 220C versus the Lippes Loop.
In other work, adding copper sleeves to the Lippes Loop improved the effectiveness of the loop and reduced expulsion of the loop.
Moderate quality evidence shows that insertion of an IUD immediately after abortion is safe and practical.
We included 25 studies (1305 participants) in this review.
No studies conducted longer-term assessments of CBT against TAU/WL.
The included trials included 2343 participants, 1511 of whom died.
Subgroup analyses showed no differences in effects of PORT by any participant subgroup covariate.
We did not undertake analysis of the effects of PORT on quality of life and adverse events.
However, it is unlikely that any benefit of PORT would offset the observed survival disadvantage, and information on quality of life was not routinely collected during these trials.
Results from 11 trials and 2343 participants show that PORT is detrimental to those with completely resected non-small cell lung cancer and should not be used in the routine treatment of such patients.
Open mesh methods, on average, took 7-10 minutes less to perform than Shouldice procedures, but took 1-4 minutes longer than other non-mesh methods.
There were no clear differences between mesh and non-mesh groups for haematomas, seromas or wound/superficial infections.
Overall, those in the mesh groups had a shorter length of hospital stay and quicker return to usual activities, but this pattern was not observed for all trials.
There was a suggestion that pain was less frequent after mesh repair than after non-mesh repair but this result was dependent on one trial and data were not available for 11 trials.
Fewer hernia recurrences were reported after mesh repair.
Two trials comparing flat mesh with plug and mesh were identified.
There was no clear evidence of differences between the groups.
Six trials involving 705 patients were included in this review.
Meta-analysis of currently published randomized controlled trials favors primary repair over fecal diversion for penetrating colon injuries.
Four randomised controlled trials have compared pramipexole with placebo in 669 patients with later Parkinson's disease.
Two studies had a medium term maintenance period (24 weeks) and the other two studies had a short term maintenance period (4 weeks).
The reduction in off time was significantly greater with pramipexole compared with placebo.
No significant changes were noted in a dyskinesia rating scale in any of the 4 studies, but dyskinesia as an adverse event was reported more frequently with pramipexole.
In two studies, a significant improvement was achieved in the UPDRS complication score (part IV) but not in the remaining trials.
Pramipexole improved ADL scores in all studies.
Significant improvements in UPDRS motor scores in the on state were reported in 3 of the 4 studies.
Pramipexole was able to reduce levodopa dose in 3 studies.
There were significantly fewer withdrawals from pramipexole.
Pramipexole can be used to reduce off time (time when symptoms return), improve motor impairments (movement problems), disability, and reduce levodopa dose at the expense of increased dyskinetic adverse events (movement disorders).
This conclusion is based on short and medium term trials (up to 24 weeks).
Further trials are required to directly compare the newer dopamine agonists with the older ones.
This update included 13 trials with 2080 participants.
Overall the certainty of the evidence was low or moderate due to short follow-up periods, heterogeneity between trials, small sample sizes, and risk of bias due to incomplete reporting.
The included trials used the following medical adjuvant treatments: aspirin, ticlopidine, dipyridamole, dipyridamole plus aspirin, warfarin, fish oil, clopidogrel, sulphinpyrazone and GTN (glyceryl trinitrate) patch.
Graft patency (the ability of the graft to stay in place) comparing ticlopidine versus placebo supported ticlopidine (3 studies, 339 participants; moderate-certainty evidence).
The single trial evaluating warfarin was terminated early because of major bleeding events in the warfarin group.
There was not enough evidence to determine if there was a difference in related interventions between placebo and treatment groups.
None of the included studies reported on the duration of hospital stay.
Most studies reported complications ranging from nausea to death.
However, data on complications were limited and reporting varied between studies.
This review included 56 trials with a total of 3105 participants.
The average age of the participants was 60 years, and the studies were carried out in both inpatient and outpatient settings.
Adverse events and dropouts did not occur more frequently in people receiving treadmill training and these were not judged to be clinically serious events.
Specifically, people with stroke who are able to walk (but not people who are dependent in walking at start of treatment) appear to benefit most from this type of intervention with regard to walking speed and walking endurance.
This review did not find, however, that improvements in walking speed and endurance may have lasting benefits.
Further research should specifically investigate the effects of different frequencies, durations, or intensities of treadmill training, as well as the use of handrails, in ambulatory participants, but not in dependent walkers.
We included 11 trials with 3374 participants aged five to 10 years when trials started.
One small study, at high risk of bias, reported a benefit for sealant after four years in preventing caries (75 children) and at nine years (75 children).
We assessed the certainty of each of these results as very low.
Three trials compared glass ionomer-based sealants with fluoride varnishes.
We did not combine the results from the studies because the studies were clinically diverse.
We assessed the certainty of this evidence as very low.
The other studies did not mention any adverse events.
The review found that applying fluoride varnish or resin-based sealants to the first permanent molars helps to prevent caries, but it has not been possible in this review to reach reliable conclusions about which one is better to apply.
The available studies do not suggest either intervention is superior, but we assessed this evidence as having very low certainty.
Fourteen studies are currently ongoing and their findings may allow us to draw firmer conclusions about whether sealants and varnish work equally well or whether one is better than the other.
We included seven randomised controlled trials involving 1839 participants with comparable treatment arms.
All seven had fundamental problems including high exclusion rates, partial hospital treatment of many in the home treatment arms, and comparison of UFH in hospital versus LMWH at home.
These trials showed that patients treated at home with LMWH were less likely to have recurrence of VTE events than those given hospital treatment with UFH or LMWH.
No clear difference was seen between groups for major bleeding, minor bleeding, or mortality.
The included studies reported no cases of venous gangrene.
Quality of evidence for data from meta-analyses was low to very low.
This was due to risk of bias, as many of the studies used unclear randomisation techniques, and blinding (keeping the participants and the people who assessed the study participants unaware of which treatment was being given) was a concern.
Also, indirectness was a concern, as most studies included a large number of participants randomised to the home (LMWH) treatment group who were treated in hospital for some or all of the treatment period.
Further issues for some outcomes was heterogeneity (differences in results) that was evident in measurement and reporting of outcomes.
We included 18 clinical trials (7208 participants), of which 16 recruited adults and adolescents (6872 participants) and two recruited children six to 17 years of age (336 participants) with asthma and significant reversibility to bronchodilator at baseline.
The risk of exacerbations requiring systemic corticosteroids (primary outcome of the review) was significantly lower with the combination of LABA + ICS compared with LTRA + ICS.
The choice of LTRA, the dose of ICS and the participants' age group did not significantly influence the magnitude of effect.
Although results were inconclusive, the effect appeared stronger in trials that used a single device rather than two devices to administer ICS and LABA and in trials of less than 12 weeks' duration.
When LABA was added to ICS, there was a greater improvement in lung function, symptoms, rescue medication use and quality of life, although the latter effects were modest.
LTRA was superior to LABA in the prevention of exercise-induced bronchospasm.
More participants were satisfied with the combination of LABA + ICS than LTRA + ICS.
The overall risk of withdrawal was significantly lower with LABA + ICS than with LTRA + ICS (13 studies, 6652 adults and 308 children).
In adults with asthma that is inadequately controlled by predominantly low-dose ICS with significant bronchodilator reversibility, the addition of LABA to ICS is modestly superior to the addition of LTRA in reducing the need for oral steroids.
Evidence showed a slightly increased risk of SAE with LABA compared with LTRA, with an absolute increase of one percentage point.
Because of the paucity of paediatric trials, we are unable to draw firm conclusions about the best adjunct therapy in children.
Two randomised controlled trials met the inclusion criteria.
The use of the sponge was significantly less effective than the use of the diaphragm in preventing overall pregnancy, but the diaphragm was less effective in preventing ectopic pregnancy.
The rates of aspiration pneumonia in the UK trial were 24.5% for the sponge and 10.9% for the diaphragm.
No new trials have been identified since the initial review.
The sponge was less effective than the diaphragm in preventing pregnancy.
We found seven studies.
Two of them were at low risk of bias (the HALT-C and EPIC3 trials) and included 1676 patients.
Both of these trials addressed the role of long-term low-dose pegylated interferon therapy in patients with severe fibrosis and were designed to assess the clinical outcomes.
Based on all trials reporting the outcomes, no significant difference was observed in either all-cause mortality or hepatic mortality.
One trial reported quality of life data; the pain score was significantly worse in the recipients of the pegylated interferon.
Adverse effects tended to be more common in the interferon recipients, including infections, flu-like symptoms, rash, and blood disorders.
The recipients of interferon had significantly more sustained viral responses (20/557 (3.6%) versus 1/579 (0.2%)).
Histologic fibrosis assessments did not show significant differences between the two groups.
The clinical data were limited to patients with severe fibrosis who were retreated with pegylated interferon.
On the other hand, the treatment did result in improvement in some surrogate outcomes, namely sustained viral responses and histologic evidence of inflammation.
Monotherapy retreatment with interferon cannot be recommended for these patients.
The sustained viral response cannot be used as a surrogate marker for hepatitis C treatment in this clinical setting with low sustained viral response rates and needs to be validated in others in which higher sustained viral response rates are reported.
We found 16 studies with 1884 participants.
Nine studies included participants considering real clinical trials, and eight included participants considering hypothetical clinical trials, with one including both.
All studies were conducted in high-income countries.
There is still much uncertainty about the effect of audio-visual informed consent interventions on a range of patient outcomes.
However, when we considered information across all comparisons, we found very low to low quality evidence that such interventions may slightly improve knowledge or understanding of the parent trial, but may make little or no difference to rate of participation or willingness to participate.
Audio-visual presentation of informed consent may improve participant satisfaction with the consent information provided.
However its effect on satisfaction with other aspects of the process is not clear.
There is insufficient evidence to draw conclusions about anxiety arising from audio-visual informed consent.
We do not believe that any studies were funded by organisations with a vested interest in the results.
This review includes 11 studies including 172 participants; only one study looked at long-term oxygen therapy (28 participants).
Four studies examined the effect of oxygen supplementation during sleep by polysomnography.
This means participants fell asleep quicker and spent a reduced percentage of total sleep time in rapid eye movement sleep, but there were no demonstrable improvements in qualitative sleep parameters.
Six studies evaluated oxygen supplementation during exercise.
Short-term oxygen therapy during sleep and exercise improves oxygenation but is associated with modest and probably clinically inconsequential hypercapnia.
There are improvements in exercise duration, time to fall asleep and regular attendance at school or work.
However, we do not expect any new research to be undertaken in this area any time soon.
The primary outcome measure was a cross-over trial including 18 participants which showed after four weeks, 2 points more improvement on a disability scale with plasma exchange than with a sham plasma exchange.
When we combined the results of this cross-over trial and a trial with 29 participants treated in a parallel-group design, there were 31 points (95% CI 18 to 45) more improvement on an impairment scale after plasma exchange than after sham (fake) exchange.
Non-randomised studies indicate that plasma exchange may cause adverse events in 3% to 17% of procedures.
These events are sometimes serious.
Both trials had a low risk of bias.
The review of intravenous immunoglobulin for this condition is being updated and a trial that showed no significant difference in the benefit between plasma exchange and intravenous immunoglobulin is included in the Cochrane review of intravenous immunoglobulin for this condition.
One trial compared biliary lavage with hydrocortisone versus saline in 17 patients.
The other trial compared budesonide versus prednisone in 18 patients.
There is no evidence to support or refute peroral glucocorticosteroids for patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis.
We included 46 randomized studies, 40 on vasovagal syncope and six on carotid sinus syncope.
No studies on situational syncope matched the criteria for inclusion in our review.
Studies in general were small with a median sample size of 42.
Twenty-two studies used a placebo (fake) control treatment and a wide range of other control treatments with varying degrees of rigour.
Blinding of patients and treating physicians was applied in eight studies.
There is insufficient evidence to support the use of any of the pharmacological or pacemaker treatments for vasovagal syncope and carotid sinus syncope.
IHCAs significantly improved knowledge, social support, and clinical outcomes.
Results suggest it is more likely than not that IHCAs have a positive effect on self-efficacy (a person's belief in their capacity to carry out a specific action).
It was not possible to determine the effects of IHCAs on emotional or economic outcomes.
There is a need for more high quality studies with large sample sizes to confirm these preliminary findings, to determine the best type and best way to deliver inhalation corticosteroids, and to establish how IHCAs have their effects for different groups of people with chronic illness.
The comparability of the included studies is extremely low because of differences in the specific diseases studied, differences in the therapeutic agents used, dosage, study design, and outcomes.
The methodological quality of included studies was generally high, although risk of bias was unclear in random sequence generation and allocation concealment for most studies.
Otherwise, the risk of bias was low for most studies in the other categories.
Serious adverse events were uncommon, except for peripheral nerve toxicity in a long-term trial of dichloroacetate (DCA) in adults.
One trial studied high-dose coenzyme Q10 without clinically meaningful improvement.
Three trials used creatine monohydrate alone, with one reporting evidence of improved measures of muscle strength and post-exercise lactate, but the other two reported no benefit.
One study of a combination of coenzyme Q10, creatine monohydrate, and lipoic acid reported improvement in biochemical markers and ankle dorsiflexion strength, but overall no improvement in 16 participants.
One trial using dimethylglycine showed no significant effect (measurements of venous lactate and oxygen consumption (VO2) in five participants).
One trial using a whey-based supplement showed improvement in markers of free radical reducing capacity, but no clinical benefit.
We included 21 studies.
Paracetamol provided a statistically significant benefit when compared with placebo for pain relief and pain intensity at both 4 and 6 hours.
There was no difference between the two groups regarding the number of patients who reported adverse events.
Paracetamol is safe and effective for the treatment of postoperative pain following the surgical removal of lower wisdom teeth.
We included seven RCTS in the review; we included six of these, totalling 485 couples, in the meta-analysis.
The main limitations were (unclear) risk of bias, signs of imprecision (i.e. the results may not be generalisable to the whole population) and inconsistency in results among studies and the small number of studies/participants included.
Considering the quality of the evidence, we were uncertain whether there was a difference in the multiple pregnancy rates (MPR) per couple comparing swim-up versus gradient technique.
No studies reported on ectopic pregnancy rate, fetal abnormalities or infection rate.
We are uncertain whether there is a difference in clinical pregnancy rates after a swim-up technique versus wash and centrifugation.
The results suggest that if the chance of pregnancy after the use of a wash technique is assumed to be 38%, the chance of pregnancy after using the swim-up technique is between 9% and 41%.
Considering the quality of evidence, we are uncertain whether there was a difference between multiple pregnancy rates between swim-up technique versus wash technique.
Miscarriage rate was only reported by one study: no miscarriages were reported in either treatment arm.
None of the studies reported on ongoing pregnancy rate, ectopic pregnancy rate, fetal abnormalities or infection rate.
Considered the quality of evidence, we are uncertain whether there is a difference in clinical pregnancy rates after a gradient versus wash and centrifugation technique (very low-quality evidence).
The results suggest that if the chance of pregnancy after the use of a wash technique is assumed to be 13%, the chance of pregnancy after using the gradient technique is between 8% and 46%.
Considering the quality of evidence, we are uncertain whether there was a difference between multiple pregnancy rates per couple between the treatment groups.
We are also uncertain whether there was a difference between miscarriage rates per couple between the treatment groups.
None of the studies reported on ongoing pregnancy rate, ectopic pregnancy rate, fetal abnormalities or infection rate.
We found 11 randomised controlled trials involving 444 people.
A large number of trials were excluded, mainly because of their non-randomised design.
There appeared to be a short-term effect of approximately 50% hair reduction with alexandrite and diode lasers up to six months after treatment, whereas little evidence was obtained for an effect of intense pulsed light, neodymium:YAG or ruby lasers.
Long-term hair removal was not documented with any treatment.
Pain, skin redness, swelling, burned hairs and pigmentary changes were infrequently reported adverse effects.
The trials compared glucocorticoid supplementation during IVF stimulation versus placebo.
In addition, we were only able to include data from two trials (310) women, for two reasons.
For the outcome of live birth, data were available for only 212 women, as the larger study had data available from only one study centre.
The evidence was rated as low or very low quality for all outcomes, mainly due to imprecision, with low sample sizes and few events.
Our findings suggest that if the chance of live birth with placebo is assumed to be 15%, the chance following supplementation would be between 7% and 31%.
There was no conclusive evidence of a difference in clinical pregnancy rate between the two groups, but the evidence suggests that the chance of clinical pregnancy with placebo is assumed to be 24%, the chance following treatment with glucocorticoid supplementation would be between 23% and 47%.
There was also insufficient evidence to determine whether there was any difference between the groups in multiple-pregnancy rate or miscarriage rate.
Neither of the studies reported OHSS (ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome) or side-effects.
The safety and effectiveness of glucocorticoid administration in women undergoing controlled ovarian hyperstimulation for IVF/ICSI cycles is unclear due to the small number of studies and low event rates.
Glucocorticoids may possibly increase the clinical pregnancy rate, but there may be little or no impact on the number of babies conceived.
Eight studies with 343 participants were included.
The review found that the BT/CBT group showed significantly lower post-treatment OCD severity and a lower risk of continuing with OCD compared to pill placebo or wait-list.
Although only based on a small number of studies which are of variable quality, behavioural or cognitive-behaviour therapy alone appears to be an effective treatment for OCD in children and adolescents.
It is as effective as medication alone and may lead to better outcomes when combined with medication compared to medication alone.
We included a total of 32 studies with 2626 randomised women.
We found evidence that physical exercise probably improves physical fitness and slightly reduces fatigue.
Exercise probably leads to little or no difference in cancer-specific quality of life and little or no difference in depression.
The evidence for other outcomes ranged from low to moderate quality.
Exercise during adjuvant treatment for breast cancer can be regarded as a supportive self care intervention that probably results in less fatigue, improved physical fitness, and little or no difference in cancer-specific quality of life and depression.
Exercise may also slightly improve cancer site-specific quality of life and cognitive function, while it may result in little or no difference in health-related quality of life.
We did not find any new trials in this update.
We included four trials involving more than 13,000 women, which were conducted in the UK and Ireland and included women in labour.
Three trials were funded by the hospitals where the trials took place and one trial was funded by the Scottish government.
Although not statistically significant, data were consistent with women allocated to admission CTG having, on average, a higher probability of an increase in the number of caesarean sections than women allocated to intermittent auscultation.
There was no clear difference in the average treatment effect across included trials between women allocated to admission CTG and women allocated to intermittent auscultation in instrumental vaginal birth and the perinatal mortality rate.
Women allocated to admission CTG had, on average, higher rates of continuous electronic fetal monitoring during labour and fetal blood sampling than women allocated to intermittent auscultation.
There were no differences between groups in other secondary outcome measures including the incidence and severity of hypoxic ischaemic encephalopathy (incidence only reported) and incidence of seizures in the neonatal period.
There were no data reported for severe neurodevelopmental disability assessed at greater than, or equal to, 12 months of age.
However, we found no evidence of benefit for the use of the admission CTG for low-risk women on admission in labour.
Furthermore, the probability is that admission CTG increases the caesarean section rate by approximately 20%.
The findings of this review support recommendations that the admission CTG not be used for women who are low risk on admission in labour.
We believe that women should be informed that admission CTG is likely associated with an increase in the incidence of caesarean section without evidence of benefit.
All four trials were conducted in Western Europe.
The usefulness of the findings of this review for developing countries will depend on FHR monitoring practices.
For this update, we included seven additional studies, making a total of 21 included studies, which involved a total of 1400 participants: 635 received SET, 320 received HBET, and 445 received WA.
Follow-up ranged from six weeks to two years.
The overall methodological quality of included trials was moderate to good.
However, some trials were small with respect to numbers of participants, ranging from 20 to 304.
Compared with HBET, SET was more beneficial for PFWD/T but had no effect on quality of life parameters nor on self-reported functional impairment.
Compared with WA, SET was more beneficial for people with PFWD/T and self-reported functional impairment, as well as for some quality of life parameters (e.g., physical functioning, pain, and physical component summary after 12 months), and HBET had no effect.
The data show no obvious effects on mortality rates.
Thirteen of the 1400 participants died, but no deaths were related to exercise therapy.
Overall, adherence to SET was approximately 80% which is similar to that reported with HBET.
Only limited adherence data were available for WA groups.
Evidence of moderate and high quality shows that SET provides an important benefit for treadmill-measured walking distance compared with HBET and WA, respectively.
These increased walking distances are likely to have a positive impact on the lives of patients with IC.
The trials showed no clear differences in quality of life parameters nor in self-reported functional impairment between SET and HBET.
However, the evidence for the effects of the combination is of low and very low quality, respectively.
Some improvements in quality of life were detected for SET compared to WA, but the analyses were limited by small numbers of studies and participants.
Future studies should focus on disease-specific quality of life and other functional outcomes, such as walking behavior and physical activity, as well as on long-term follow-up.
Nine studies involving 1359 participants met the inclusion criteria.
Six studies compared individual education to usual care and three compared individual education to group education (361 participants).
There were no long-term studies and overall the quality of the studies was not high.
The six studies that compared individual face-to-face education to usual care showed that individual education did not significantly improve glycaemic control compared to usual care.
However, there appeared to be a significant benefit of individual education on glycaemic control in a subgroup analysis of three studies involving participants with a higher mean baseline HbA1c greater than 8%.
In the two studies comparing individual to group education, there was no significant difference in glycaemic control between individual or group education at 12 to 18 months.
There was no significant difference in the impact of individual versus usual care or group education on blood pressure.
No data were available on the other main outcome measures of diabetes complications or health service utilization and cost analysis in these studies.
We found three studies with a total of 128 participants.
The duration of zinc supplementation ranged between four and 12 weeks.
No study reported on our key outcome measures (incidence of type 2 diabetes mellitus, adverse events, health-related quality of life, all-cause mortality, diabetic complications, socioeconomic effects).
Evaluation of insulin resistance as measured by the Homeostasis Model Assessment of Insulin Resistance (HOMA-IR) showed neutral effects when comparing zinc supplementation with control (two studies, 114 participants).
There is currently no evidence on which to base the use of zinc supplementation for the prevention of type 2 diabetes mellitus.
We included 16 randomised controlled trials (2232 couples).
We are uncertain whether glucocorticoids improved live birth rates.
This suggests that if the chance of live birth following no glucocorticoids/placebo is assumed to be 9%, the chance following glucocorticoids would be between 6% and 21%.
We are also uncertain whether there was a difference between peri-implantation glucocorticoids on multiple pregnancy rates per couple.
We are uncertain whether there was a difference in ongoing pregnancy rates after glucocorticoids versus no glucocorticoids/placebo (3 RCTs, n = 476) and clinical pregnancy rates after glucocorticoids versus no glucocorticoids/placebo (13 RCTs, n = 1967).
This suggests that if the chance of clinical pregnancy following no glucocorticoids/placebo is assumed to be 25%, the chance following glucocorticoids would be between 24% and 32%.
Furthermore, we are also uncertain whether peri-implantation glucocorticoids influenced miscarriage rates per couple, the incidence of ectopic pregnancies per couple and ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS) per couple compared to no glucocorticoids/placebo.
Two cluster-randomized controlled trials (RCTs) (involving a total of 5455 women) met the inclusion criteria.
The two trials measured the effects of the intervention in different ways, which meant that we were not able to combine the results of the studies.
One trial (432 women enrolled) conducted in Canada was judged of low methodological quality.
Moreover, losses to follow-up were high (34%, 147 out of 432 women initially enrolled).
The authors concluded that when pregnant women are educated, they are more likely to change their behavior and increase their pet, personal and food hygiene.
The second trial conducted in France was also judged of low methodological quality.
There were also high losses to follow-up (44 percent of women who initially enrolled in the study dropped out) and differential (40 percent of women in the intervention group and 52 percent of women in the control group).
We included 15 studies with a total of 6008 participants (13 studies contributed data).
Infants born to women using home uterine monitoring were less likely to be admitted to the neonatal intensive care unit (five studies, 2367 babies).
Women using home uterine monitoring made more unscheduled antenatal visits.
Women using home uterine monitoring were also more likely to receive prophylactic tocolytic drug therapy, but this difference was no longer evident when we restricted the analysis to studies at low risk of bias (three studies, 3749 women; random-effects, Tau2 = 0.05, I2 = 76%).
We found no data on maternal anxiety or acceptability.
People receiving any intermittent drug treatment were more likely to be admitted to hospital than those receiving no treatment, however we were uncertain about the magnitude of this difference.
Results of this review support the existing evidence that intermittent antipsychotic treatment is not as effective as continuous, maintained antipsychotic therapy in preventing relapse in people with schizophrenia.
More research is needed to assess any potential benefits or harms of intermittent treatment compared to continuous treatment, as well as the cost-effectiveness of this experimental treatment.
We identified four new studies for this update, bringing the total to six included studies involving 1388 participants.
Minor filter complications were noted at six months.
The second study of 240 people with multiple injuries was an open-label trial in which people were allocated to a filter or no filter, three days after injury, in conjunction with anticoagulation and intermittent pneumatic compression.
We are unable to draw any conclusions from the remaining four included studies.
One study showed an increased incidence of long-term DVT at eight years.
Three studies are no longer clinically applicable because they utilised permanent filters which are seldom used now, or they did not use routine prophylactic anticoagulation which is current standard practice.
The fourth study compared two filter types and was terminated prematurely as one filter group had a higher rate of thrombosis compared to the other filter type.
Two of the six identified studies were relevant for current clinical settings.
One showed no evidence of a benefit of retrievable filters in acute PE for the outcomes of PE, death, DVT (deep vein thrombosis) and bleeding during the initial three months in people who can receive anticoagulation (anticoagulants are medicines that thin the blood to reduce the risk of blood clots).
The other study did not show any benefit for prophylactic filter insertion in people who sustained multiple traumatic injuries, with respect to symptomatic PE, mortality, or lower extremity venous thrombosis.
Further studies are needed to assess the effectiveness and safety of vena caval filters.
We found 18 trials with a total of 4843 participants comparing the effect of bisphosphonate administration to control regimens.
There was no clear difference in the proportion of participants with pain response.
In absolute terms, bisphosphonates resulted in a pain response in 40 more participants per 1000 (19 fewer to 114 more).
We found no difference in death from all causes (9 studies, 2450 participants, moderate quality evidence).
Bisphosphonates probably increased the number of participants affected by nausea.
In absolute terms, bisphosphonates resulted in seven more cases of nausea per 1000.
Bisphosphonates probably increased the number of kidney adverse events.
In absolute terms, bisphosphonates resulted in 22 more renal adverse events per 1000 (4 more to 50 more).
We found no clear difference in the number of participants with osteonecrosis of the jaw between groups.
We found moderate quality evidence that bisphosphonates probably reduced the number of participants with disease progression.
In absolute terms, bisphosphonates resulted in 36 fewer cases of disease progression per 1000.
We identified 11 trials that enrolled 687 eyes of 679 participants.
The studies were conducted in the United States, Europe, Asia and Africa.
Five studies enrolled people at low risk of failure, five studies enrolled people at high risk of failure, and one study enrolled people with both high and low risk of failure.
None of the included trials enrolled participants with combined trabeculectomy/cataract surgery.
The risk of failure of surgery at one year after surgery was less in those participants who received MMC compared to those who received 5-FU, however the confidence intervals were wide and are compatible with no effect.
There was no evidence for any difference between groups at high and low risk of failure.
None of the studies reported quality of life.
Overall, we rated the quality of the evidence as low largely because of risk of bias in the included studies and imprecision in the estimate of effect.
We identified five randomised controlled trials (RCTs) with 11,565 participants and three interrupted time series studies (ITSs) with 26.3 data points on average.
One study that evaluated the effect of legislation to ban Endosulfan pesticide on fatal pesticide poisonings increased the number of poisonings immediately after the introduction but led to decrease in the trend of poisonings over time.
One study documented four different regulations that aimed to increase the use of rollover protective structures (ROPS) on tractors and their effect on injuries and fatal injuries.
The studies did not provide evidence that educational interventions are effective in reducing injury rates among agricultural workers.
Financial incentives could reduce injury rates.
Legislation to ban pesticides could be effective.
This review found that legislation expanding the use of safety devices (ROPS) on new tractors was associated with a decrease in fatal injuries.
We found eight randomised studies with a total of 850 participants.
However, our analysis of the other outcomes showed that use of mechanical devices saved approximately nine minutes of total operating time when compared with use of a ligature.
Available information was insufficient for reliable comparison of total hospital costs and postoperative pain/quality of life between the two approaches.
Evidence is insufficient at present to advocate omission of conventional ligature-based appendix stump closure in favour of any single type of mechanical device over another in uncomplicated appendicitis.
We found one trial in which participants were randomised to receive either betamethasone or usual care.
The trial included 942 women and 942 neonates recruited from 10 UK hospitals between 1995 and 2002.
We downgraded the certainty of the evidence because of concerns about risk of bias and because of imprecision due to low event rates and wide 95% confidence intervals (CIs), which are consistent with possible benefit and possible harm.
Antenatal corticosteroids probably reduce the risk of admission to neonatal special care for respiratory complications, compared with usual care.
The proportion of infants admitted to neonatal special care for respiratory morbidity after treatment with antenatal corticosteroids was 2.3% compared with 5.1% in the usual care group.
We are uncertain if antenatal steroids have any effect on the risk of needing mechanical ventilation, compared with usual care.
The effect of antenatal corticosteroids on the development of postpartum infection after birth is unclear due to the very low certainty of the evidence.
It is uncertain if antenatal corticosteroids reduce the rates of RDS or TTN.
The overall certainty of the evidence for the primary outcomes was found to be low or very low, apart from the outcome of admission to neonatal special care (all levels) for respiratory morbidity, for which the evidence was of moderate certainty.
More research is needed to investigate the effect of prophylactic antenatal corticosteroids on the incidence of recognised respiratory morbidity such as RDS.
Future trials should assess the balance between respiratory benefit and potential adverse effects, such as hypoglycaemia (low blood sugar) and academic performance, for the infant.
Further research should consider investigating the effectiveness of antenatal steroids at different gestational ages prior to caesarean section.
There are nine potentially eligible studies that are currently ongoing and could be included in future updates of this review.
We included 20 studies with a total of 2068 participants.
We studied the anticonvulsant drugs carbamazepine, gabapentin, lamotrigine, phenytoin, tiagabine, topiramate and vigabatrin.
All studies compared anticonvulsants versus placebo (a dummy treatment that does not affect the patient).
There were no significant differences between anticonvulsants and placebo for any of the efficacy or safety measures.
Use of cocaine: moderate quality of evidence; side effects: moderate quality of evidence; craving: low quality of evidence.
We included three studies, involving 146 participants.
Two studies were assessed as being at high risk of bias.
One surgical failure was due to the gold chain detaching from the tooth.
One study reported on complications following surgery and found two in the closed group: a post-operative infection requiring antibiotics and pain during alignment of the canine as the gold chain penetrated through the gum tissue of the palate.
We were unable to pool data for dental aesthetics, patient-reported pain and discomfort, periodontal health and treatment time.
Currently, the evidence suggests that neither the open nor the closed surgical technique for exposing palatally displaced maxillary canine teeth is superior for any of the outcomes included in this review.
This suggests the need for more high-quality studies.
Three ongoing clinical trials have been identified and it is hoped that these will produce data that can be pooled to increase the degree of certainty in these findings.
Oral thiol derivatives were well tolerated with no significant adverse effects, however there was no evidence of significant clinical benefit in those who received these treatments.
We found no evidence to recommend the use of either nebulized or oral thiol derivatives in people with cystic fibrosis.
There are very few good quality trials investigating the effect of these medications in cystic fibrosis, and further research is required to investigate the potential role of these medications in improving the outcomes of people with cystic fibrosis.
We found 17 trials with 1466 women.
Thirteen examined TENS applied to the back, two to acupuncture points, and two to the cranium.
Overall, there was little difference in pain ratings between TENS and control groups, although women receiving TENS to acupuncture points were less likely to report severe pain.
The majority of women using TENS said they would be willing to use it again in a future labour.
There is only limited evidence that TENS reduces pain in labour and it does not seem to have any impact (either positive or negative) on other outcomes for mothers or babies.
The use of TENS at home in early labour has not been evaluated.
TENS is widely available in hospital settings and women should have the choice of using it in labour.
We found three studies that met our inclusion criteria.
All studies were conducted in the United States of America and recruited adolescents who used drugs through homeless shelters into randomised controlled trials of independent and non-overlapping behavioural interventions.
Overall, the variability in delivery and outcomes precluded estimation of summary of effect measures.
The inclusion of these studies in the review and the lack of robustness in the evidence suggest that, with further research, the effectiveness of these interventions is not clear.
Future trials should comply with rigorous methodology in design, delivery, outcome measurement and reporting.
Ten trials including 657 patients compared different methods of vascular occlusion.
All trials were of high risk of bias.
Only one or two trials were included under each comparison.
There was no statistically significant difference in the rates of death, liver failure, or other complications between any of the comparisons.
Hepatic vascular occlusion does not decrease the blood transfusion requirements.
It decreases the cardiac output and increases the systemic vascular resistance.
In the comparison between continuous portal triad clamping and intermittent portal triad clamping, four of the five liver failures occurred in patients with chronic liver diseases undergoing the liver resections using continuous portal triad clamping.
In the comparison between selective inflow occlusion and portal triad clamping, all four patients with liver failure occurred in the selective inflow occlusion group.
There was no difference in any of the other important outcomes in any of the comparisons.
Further randomised trials of low risk of bias are needed to determine the optimal technique of vascular occlusion.
We included three trials (283 participants in the analyses) that ran for two to three years.
All participants in this trial were ex- or never-smokers with a genetic variant that carries a high risk of developing COPD.
Only one trial reported death data, and there were very few deaths in the treatment group.
There was no information on harms in the oldest trial.
Another trial reported serious adverse events in 10 participants in the treatment group and 18 participants in the placebo group.
In the most recent trial, serious adverse events occurred in 28 participants in each group.
None of the trials reported mean number of lung infections or hospital admissions.
Lung density measured by CT scan deteriorated significantly less in the treatment group than in the placebo group.
Several other outcomes were not reported in the largest and most recent trial whose authors had many financial conflicts of interest.
We conclude that augmentation therapy with alpha-1 antitrypsin cannot be recommended.
The follow-up period in most studies was 36 months.
In the primary dentition of young children, 1500 ppm fluoride toothpaste reduces caries increment when compared with non-fluoride toothpaste; the caries-preventive effects for the head-to-head comparison of 1055 ppm versus 550 ppm fluoride toothpaste are similar, but toothbrushing with 1450 ppm fluoride toothpaste slightly reduces decayed, missing, filled teeth when compared with 440 ppm fluoride toothpaste.
However, the overall certainty of the evidence for this comparison was low.
The network included 21 different comparisons of seven fluoride concentrations.
The certainty of the evidence was low with the following exceptions: there was high- and moderate-certainty evidence that 1000 to 1250 ppm fluoride toothpaste reduces caries increments when compared with non-fluoride toothpaste; there was moderate-certainty evidence that 1450 to 1500 ppm fluoride toothpaste slightly reduces caries increments when compared to 1000 to 1250 ppm; and moderate-certainty evidence that the caries increments are similar for 1700 to 2200 ppm and 2400 to 2800 ppm fluoride toothpaste when compared to 1450 to 1500 ppm.
In the adult permanent dentition, 1000 or 1100 ppm fluoride toothpaste reduces DMFS increment when compared with non-fluoride toothpaste in adults of all ages.
The evidence for DMFT was low certainty.
Only a minority of studies assessed the side effects of toothpaste.
When reported, effects such as soft tissue damage and tooth staining were minimal.
This review shows that fluoride toothpaste is better than non-fluoride toothpaste in preventing cavities.
For many comparisons of different concentrations of xylitol the caries-preventive effects and our confidence in these effect estimates are uncertain and could be challenged by further research.
The choice of fluoride toothpaste concentration for young children should be balanced against the risk of fluorosis.
We included 32 studies in this review, with a total of 660 patients.
Seventeen studies randomised women (total 3666), three randomised cycles (total 1018) and twelve randomised oocytes (over 15,230).
It was not possible to pool any of the data because each study compared different culture media.
This study was available only as an abstract and the quality of the evidence was low.
With regards to adverse effects, three studies reported multiple pregnancies and six studies reported miscarriage.
None of them found any evidence of a difference between the culture media used.
None of the studies reported on the health of their offspring.
The quality of the evidence was very low for most comparisons, mainly because of the small sample sizes and poor reporting of study methods.
We conclude that there is insufficient evidence to support or refute the use of any specific culture medium.
Properly designed and executed randomised trials are necessary.
We included six randomised controlled trials involving 8372 people.
All trials were judged to be at high risk of bias for at least one domain.
For both comparisons (email versus standard mail and email versus usual care) there was no difference between the groups for patient or caregiver understanding and support.
Results were inconclusive for patient or caregiver behaviours and actions.
The evidence on the use of email for the provision of information on disease prevention and health promotion was weak, and therefore inadequate to inform clinical practice.
We included two trials with a total of 37 children diagnosed with ASD who were randomised into groups that received either omega-3 fatty acids supplementation or a placebo.
Given the lack of high-quality studies in this area, there is a need for large well-conducted research studies that examine both high and low functioning individuals with ASD, and that have longer follow-up periods.
Sumatriptan 50 mg did not differ from aspirin alone for 2-hour pain-free and headache relief, while sumatriptan 100 mg was better than the combination of aspirin plus metoclopramide for 2-hour pain-free, but not headache relief.
Adverse events were mostly mild and transient, occurring slightly more often with aspirin than placebo.
Additional metoclopramide significantly reduced nausea and vomiting compared with aspirin alone.
We found no new studies since the last version of this review.
A 1000-mg dose of aspirin is an effective treatment for acute migraine headaches, similar to sumatriptan 50 mg or 100 mg.
The length of intervention was 9, 12 and 24 months in the different trials.
The use of TTM SOC in combination with diet or physical activity, or both, and other interventions in the included studies produced inconclusive evidence that TTM SOC interventions led to sustained weight loss.
Following application of TTM SOC there were improvements in physical activity and dietary habits, such as increased exercise duration and frequency, reduced dietary fat intake and increased fruit and vegetable consumption.
None of the trials reported health-related quality of life, morbidity, or economic costs as outcomes.
The main limitations include the inadequate reporting of outcomes, the methods used to assign people to the study groups, extensive use of self-reported measures to estimate the effects of interventions on a number of outcomes, including weight loss, dietary consumption and physical activity levels, and insufficient assessment of sustainability due to lack of post-study assessments.
When combined with diet or physical activity, or both, and other interventions, we found very low quality evidence that it might lead to better dietary and physical activity habits.
We included nine trials involving 1319 participants (369 children and 950 adults).
Only two trials reported funding sources (government and a university foundation).
At 24 hours, pain was reduced by an additional 10.6% by corticosteroids.
No differences were reported in recurrence/relapse rates, days missed from work or school, or adverse events for participants taking corticosteroids compared to placebo.
However, the reporting of adverse events was poor, and only two trials included children or reported days missed from work or school.
Further research is needed to assess the harms and benefits of short courses of steroids.
We included 67 studies with a total of 10,509 participants.
Of these, 15 studies with a total of 5787 participants used a placebo.
One subset of higher-quality trials suggests that alpha-blockers likely increase the risk of major adverse events slightly, corresponding to 29 more major adverse events per 1000 participants.
Patients treated with alpha-blockers may experience shorter stone expulsion times (low-quality evidence), may use less painkillers (low-quality evidence), and likely require fewer hospitalisations (moderate-quality evidence).
We found no evidence suggesting possible subgroup effects based on stone location (distal vs. proximal) or alpha-blocker type.
For patients with ureteral stones, alpha-blockers likely increase stone clearance but probably also slightly increase the risk of major adverse events.
Subgroup analyses suggest that alpha-blockers may be less effective for smaller (5 mm or smaller) than for larger stones (greater than 5 mm).
The updated search identified no new randomised controlled trials.
We identified 47 studies, involving approximately 1.2 million children.
Studies were carried out in 19 countries: 30 (63%) in Asia, 16 of these in India; 8 (17%) in Africa; 7 (15%) in Latin America, and 2 (4%) in Australia.
About one-third of the studies were in urban/periurban settings, and half were in rural settings; the remaining studies did not clearly report settings.
Most studies included equal numbers of girls and boys and lasted about one year.
The mean age of the children was about 33 months.
Nine trials reported deaths due to diarrhoea and showed a 12% overall reduction for VAS.
Vitamin A supplementation reduced the incidence of diarrhoea, measles, Bitot's spots, night blindness, and vitamin A deficiency.
However, there was no evidence of a difference on incidence of respiratory disease or hospitalisations due to diarrhoea or pneumonia.
This update identified no new eligible studies and the conclusions remain the same.
We concluded that VAS is associated with meaningful reduction in morbidity (serious complications) and mortality in children.
We found three randomised, placebo-controlled trials with a total of 50 participants.
All three trials compared rTMS with sham TMS.
None of the trials reported on ALSFRS-R scores at six months follow-up which was pre-assigned as our primary outcome.
No difference was seen between rTMS and sham rTMS using the ALSFRS-R scores and manual muscle testing (MMT) scores at 12 months follow-up in this trial (two studies; 340 participants).
Additionally, none of the trials reported any adverse events associated with the use of rTMS.
At the moment, there is not enough evidence to draw any conclusions about the efficacy and safety of rTMS in the treatment of ALS.
Further studies may be helpful if their potential benefit is weighed against the impact of participation in a randomised controlled trial on people with ALS.
We included both men and women with a mean age of 50.6 years.
Evidence of very low to low quality showed that facet joint RF denervation was more effective for pain than steroid injections over the short, intermediate, and long term.
RF denervation for disc pain produces conflicting results, with no effects for RF denervation compared with placebo over the short and intermediate term, and small effects for RF denervation over the long term for pain relief and improved function.
When RF denervation is used for SI joint pain, low-quality evidence reveals no differences from placebo in effects on pain and function over the short term, and one study shows a small effect on both pain and function over the intermediate term.
RF denervation is an invasive procedure that can cause a variety of complications.
The studies were of low quality and had small numbers of participants, so it was not possible to know how often complications occur.
The authors of the review found no evidence from well-designed studies that RF denervation provides pain relief for patients with CLBP.
Similarly, there was no convincing evidence to show that this treatment improves function.
Overall, the current evidence for RF denervation for CLBP is very low to moderate in quality; high-quality evidence is lacking.
None of these studies reported night sweats, sleep disturbances associated with night sweats or adverse effects as an outcome.
The main limitations of identified evidence were lack of data, imprecision and failure to report study methods in adequate detail.
The evidence was insufficient to show the effectiveness of relaxation techniques as treatment for menopausal vasomotor symptoms, or to determine whether this treatment is more effective than no treatment, placebo, acupuncture, superficial needle insertion or paced respiration.
We included 34 trials involving 69,338 babies.
The three trials conducted in community settings contributed 78% of the total number of children included in this review.
Of the trials conducted in hospital settings, the majority had small sample sizes.
The reduction in omphalitis ranged from 27% to 56% depending on the severity of infection.
Cord separation time was increased by 1.7 days in the chlorhexidine group compared with dry cord care.
Among studies conducted in hospital settings, no study reported data for mortality or tetanus.
No antiseptic was advantageous to reduce the incidence of omphalitis (inflammation of the area around the baby's umbilicus) compared with dry cord care in hospital settings.
Topical triple dye application reduced bacterial colonization with Staphylococcus aureus compared with dry cord care or alcohol application.
There was no advantage of application of alcohol and triple dye in reducing the colonization with streptococcus.
Topical alcohol application was advantageous in the reduction of colonization with E. coli compared with dry cord care.
Cord separation time was significantly increased with topical application of alcohol and triple dye in hospital settings compared with dry cord care.
The number of studies was insufficient to make any inference about the efficacy of other antiseptics.
There is evidence to suggest that chlorhexidine reduces mortality and omphalitis when used topically to the umbilical cord in developing countries.
We pooled summary estimates from 10 trials evaluating SmartCare™ involving 654 participants.
Subgroup analysis suggested that trials with protocolized (versus non-protocolized) control weaning strategies reported significantly shorter ICU stays.
Sensitivity analysis excluded two trials with high risk of bias and supported a trend toward significant reductions in weaning time favouring SmartCare™.
Compared with non-automated weaning strategies, weaning with SmartCare™ significantly decreased weaning time, time to successful extubation, ICU stay and the proportions of patients receiving ventilation for longer than seven days and 21 days.
It also showed a trend toward fewer patients receiving ventilation for longer than 14 days, but the effect was imprecise.
We included seven trials involving 800 women.
As a result of the different randomisation units, we did not combine trials but reported the individual trial results in the text.
We did not find any trial reporting data about maternal deaths.
In terms of pain, PCB does not improve the control of pain when compared against sedation/analgesia or versus no anaesthesia/no analgesia.
When opioids were used, postoperative nausea and vomiting was more frequent in two trials comparing those versus PCB.
Particular considerations that influence the choice of anaesthesia for this procedure such as availability, effectiveness, safety, side effects, practitioner's choice, costs and woman's preferences of each technique should continue to be used until more evidence supporting the use of one technique or another.
We included 16 randomised controlled trials with 3578 participants.
The studies covered a wide spectrum of interventions including clinic-based brief interventions, Internet-based interventions that could be used from home and mobile phone-based interventions.
The mean age of participants was between 46 to 67 years old, and mean time since diagnosis was between 6 to 13 years.
The duration of the interventions varied between 1 to 12 months.
There were three deaths out of 3578 participants.
They appear to have small benefits on glycaemic control.
One participant withdrew because of anxiety but there were no other documented adverse effects.
Computer-based diabetes self-management interventions to manage type 2 diabetes appear to have a small beneficial effect on blood glucose control and the effect was larger in the mobile phone subgroup.
There is no evidence to show benefits in other biological outcomes or any cognitive, behavioural or emotional outcomes.
We included 13 studies with 1021 participants with varicose veins without healed or active venous ulceration.
One study included pregnant women, while other studies included participants who had sought medical intervention for their varicose veins by being on surgical waiting lists, or attending vascular surgery or dermatology clinics or outpatient departments.
The stockings used in the studies exerted different levels of pressure, ranging from 10 mmHg to 50 mmHg.
Five studies compared compression stockings versus no compression stockings.
Three of these studies used knee-length stockings, one used full-length stockings and one used full tights.
Eight studies compared different types or pressures of knee-length stockings.
However, change in symptoms was not always analysed by comparing the randomised arms of the studies and was therefore subject to bias.
Two studies assessed physiological measures using either ankle circumference or duplex sonography to measure oedema.
Ankle circumference showed no clear difference between baseline and follow-up while oedema was reduced in the stocking group compared with the placebo stocking group.
Three studies reported itching and irritation as the main side effects.
None of the trials reported severe side effects.
Compression tights were increasingly rejected by pregnant women as their pregnancy progressed, while in one study of non-pregnant women, the stockings group showed no more hindrance of normal activities and daytime discomfort when compared with placebo stockings.
Two studies reported similar levels of tolerance and discomfort between groups.
Discomfort was the main reason for indicating a preference for one type of stocking over another.
None of the studies assessed quality of life.
No conclusions regarding the optimum length or pressure of compression stockings could be made as there were no conclusive results from the included studies.
Based on the available evidence, there is not enough high-certainty evidence to determine:
• whether compression stockings are effective for people with varicose veins, whether or not they have healed or active venous ulceration
• whether any type of stocking is superior to any other type of stocking.
We could not identify any studies in which the only difference between the treatment groups was the use of intracystic bleomycin.
We did identify a randomised controlled trial comparing intracystic bleomycin with intracystic phosphorus-32 (32P) (seven children).
The included study had a high risk of bias.
There was a significant difference in favour of the 32P group for the occurrence of headache and vomiting.
Since we identified no RCTs, quasi-randomised trials or CCTs of the treatment of cystic craniopharyngiomas in children in which only the use of intracystic bleomycin differed between the treatment groups, no definitive conclusions could be made about the effects of intracystic bleomycin in these patients.
High-quality randomised controlled trials are needed.
We found that medication reviews in hospitalised adults may have little or no effect on deaths, possibly reduce hospital readmissions, may reduce emergency department visits, and have very uncertain effects on health-related quality of life.
Medication reviews in hospitalised adult patients likely reduce hospital readmissions and may reduce emergency department contacts.
The evidence suggests that mediation reviews may have little to no effect on mortality, while the effect on health-related quality of life is very uncertain.
Almost all trials included elderly patients taking multiple medications, which limits the generalisability of the results beyond this population.
We identified five randomised clinical trials with 290 patients.
Phyllanthus seemed to have a superior effect on clearance of serum HBeAg at the end of treatment in conventional meta-analysis, but not when trial sequential analysis was applied.
No data were reported on the occurrence of adverse events in the five trials.
We found 14 studies with 923 participants.
The studies took place in Australia, Canada, the UK, and the USA.
Six of the 14 included studies were funded by government agencies and one was funded by a university grant.
The rest were funded by charitable foundations or trusts.
These studies compared phonics training alone, or in conjunction with one other reading-related skill, to either no training (i.e. treatment as usual) or alterative training (e.g. maths).
Participants were English-speaking children or adolescents, of low and middle socioeconomic status, whose reading was one year, one grade, or one standard deviation below the level expected for their age or grade for no known reason.
Phonics training varied between studies in terms of intensity (up to four hours per week), duration (up to seven months), training group size (individual and small groups), and the delivery method (human and computer).
We measured the effect of phonics training on seven primary outcomes (mixed/regular word reading accuracy, non-word reading accuracy, irregular word reading accuracy, mixed/regular word reading fluency, non-word reading fluency, reading comprehension, and spelling).
More studies are needed to improve the precision of outcomes, including word and non-word reading accuracy, reading comprehension, spelling, letter-sound knowledge, and phonological output.
We found 16 trials involving a total of 616 people.
In the remaining studies, interventions included exercise programmes (three trials), acupuncture (two trials), self-hypnosis (one trial), transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) (one trial), and a cognitive behavioural programme (one trial).
We searched again in November 2014, and found more recent studies that we will include in an update of this review.
For tDCS, the pooled mean difference between the intervention and control groups in pain scores on an 11-point visual analogue scale (VAS) (0-10) was a reduction of -1.90 units in the short term and of -1.87 in the mid term.
The results from the included studies, which compared exercise programmes to usual care, showed that exercise programmes lead to mean reductions in pain of -1.9 score points for the Short Form (SF)-36 item for pain experience and -2.8 pain VAS units, which represented the largest observed treatment effects in the studies.
The trials investigating rTMS, cognitive behavioural programmes, acupuncture, self-hypnosis, TENS (transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation), or CES (cognitive behavioural therapy) provided no evidence that these interventions reduce chronic pain.
The other outcomes of the trials included quality of life, anxiety, depression and pain, but the available data were not sufficient to draw firm conclusions.
Evidence is insufficient to suggest that non-pharmacological treatments are effective in reducing chronic pain in people living with SCI.
Studies were mainly funded by international organisations, universities, and ministries of health within the countries.
Approximately one third of the included studies did not provide a funding source.
Women in the control group were less likely to have any adverse side effects than those receiving intermittent iron supplements.
Compared to daily regimens, intermittent regimens may also reduce the risk of having iron deficiency.
Information on disease outcomes, adherence, economic productivity, and work performance was scarce, and evidence about the effects of intermittent supplementation on these outcomes was unclear.
Overall, whether the supplements were given once or twice weekly, for less or more than three months, contained less or more than 60 mg of elemental iron per week, or given to populations with different degrees of anaemia at baseline did not seem to affect the findings.
Intermittent iron supplementation may reduce anaemia and may improve iron stores among menstruating women in populations with different anaemia and malaria backgrounds.
Iron supplements given intermittently are probably as effective in preventing or controlling anaemia as those given daily.
The quality of this evidence base ranged from very low to moderate quality, suggesting that we are uncertain about these effects.
This update includes seven studies on treadmill intervention in 175 children: 104 were allocated to treadmill groups, and 71 were controls.
We found that the effects of treadmill exercise on independent walking onset compared to no treadmill exercise was population dependent, but showed no overall effect (moderate-quality evidence).
Treadmill intervention did not improve overall gross motor function, gross motor skills related to standing, or gross motor skills related to walking.
The intervention led to improved walking skills in 20 ambulatory children with developmental delay and improved gross motor skills in 12 children with cerebral palsy.
A study which compared treadmill intervention with and without orthotics in 17 children with Down syndrome suggested that adding orthotics might hinder overall gross motor progress.
We therefore recommend that future research should first confirm these findings with larger and better designed studies, especially for infants with cerebral palsy and developmental delay.
Once efficacy is established, research should examine the optimal dosage of treadmill intervention in these populations.
All trials were randomised and open-label studies.
Five RCTs (N = 337) assessed the efficacy of G-CSF in combination with standard therapy (supportive care, chemotherapy or erythropoietin).
We were not able to combine the results for any of the outcomes we planned to report.
There is no evidence for a difference for overall survival, progression-free survival, progression to AML, incidence of infections and number of red blood transfusions.
Data about quality of life and serious adverse events were not reported in any of the included trials.
Two RCTs (N = 149) evaluated GM-CSF in addition to standard chemotherapy as an adjuvant therapy.
Time to progression to acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) and quality of life were not reported.
Moreover, we found two cross-over trials including 244 patients that evaluated GM-CSF versus placebo, without publishing results for each arm before crossing over.
In addition, we identified two ongoing studies, one of which was discontinued due to withdrawal of pharmaceutical support, the other was terminated early, both without publishing results.
The main findings of this systematic review are that there is a substantial lack of data which might inform the use of G-CSF and GM-CSF for the prevention of infections, prolonging of survival and improvement of quality of life.
We found five randomised controlled trials involving 1466 women.
Two studies (involving 1097 women) compared oral methylergometrine with a placebo, and one (involving 171 women) compared oral methylergometrine with Kyuki-chouketsu-in, a Japanese traditional herbal medicine.
The remaining two studies (involving 198 women) did not report the outcomes of interest for this review.
The included studies reported poorly on adverse events, and most did not report any adverse events.
We did not find any studies comparing homeopathic remedies with either a placebo or no treatment.
There was insufficient evidence to support the use of prophylactic oral methylergometrine given after delivery of the placenta for the prevention of PPH.
Trials to assess the effectiveness of herbal medicines and homeopathic remedies in preventing PPH are warranted.
We found three clinical trials, involving a total of 120 participants, comparing packed red blood cells that had been stored for ≥ 21 days versus packed red blood cells that had been stored for less than 21 days.
We pooled data to assess the effect of prolonged storage on death from any cause.
The confidence in the results from these trials was very low, due to the bias in their design and their limited sample sizes.
No trial included other outcomes of interest, namely lung injury from blood transfusion, infection, and adverse events.
The safety profile of the treatment is unknown.
The results from four large ongoing trials will help to inform future updates of this review.
We have included data from 27 randomised trials involving 12,256 women.
All of the trials examined telephone support versus usual care (no additional telephone support).
We did not identify any trials comparing different modes of telephone support (for example, text messaging versus one-to-one calls).
All but one of the trials were carried out in high-income countries.
The majority of studies examined support provided via telephone conversations between women and health professionals although a small number of trials included telephone support from peers.
In two trials women received automated text messages.
The evidence for most of our pre-specified outcomes was very weak, and many of the results described in the review are based on findings from only one or two studies.
Overall, results were inconsistent and inconclusive although there was some evidence that telephone support may be a promising intervention.
Results suggest that telephone support may increase women's overall satisfaction with their care during pregnancy and the postnatal period, although results for both periods were derived from only two studies.
There was no consistent evidence confirming that telephone support reduces maternal anxiety during pregnancy or after the birth of the baby, although results on anxiety outcomes were not easy to interpret as data were collected at different time points using a variety of measurement tools.
There was evidence from two trials that women at high risk of depression who received support had lower mean depression scores in the postnatal period.
Results from trials offering breastfeeding telephone support were also inconsistent, although the evidence suggests that telephone support may increase the duration of breastfeeding.
There was no strong evidence that women receiving telephone support were less likely to be smoking at the end of pregnancy or during the postnatal period.
For infant outcomes, such as preterm birth and infant birthweight, overall, there was little evidence.
Where evidence was available, there were no clear differences between groups.
We could not recommend routine telephone support for women accessing maternity services, as the evidence from included trials is neither strong nor consistent.
Four studies with a total of 141 participants were included in the review, two of these were in children (aged six months to 14.5 years), and two did not specify participants’ age.
Water-soluble vitamin E may improve serum vitamin E levels compared with control at six months, one study (45 participants).
Similar results were also seen at one month, two studies (32 participants), and at three months, one study (45 participants).
Only one study (45 participants) reported weight at one and six months, but showed no difference between treatment and control at either time point.
Fat-soluble vitamin E
Two studies (36 participants) reported higher levels of serum vitamin E at one month with fat-soluble vitamin E compared with control, but at three months one study (36 participants) showed no difference between treatment and control.
No studies reported on growth or nutritional status.
Vitamin E supplementation may lead to an improvement in vitamin E levels in people with cystic fibrosis, although evidence we assessed was low quality.
In future, larger studies are needed, especially in people already being treated with enteric-coated pancreatic enzymes and supplemented with vitamin E, to look at more specific outcome measures such as vitamin E status, lung function and nutritional status.
Future studies could also look at the optimal dose of vitamin E required to achieve maximal clinical effectiveness.
We included 10 trials, with a total of 422 participants, that addressed two of the outcomes of interest to this review: swelling (oedema) and bruising (ecchymosis).
Nine studies on rhinoplasty used a variety of different types, and doses, of corticosteroids.
Five trials did not report on harmful (adverse) effects; four trials reported that there were no adverse effects; and one trial reported adverse effects in two participants treated with corticosteroids as well as in four participants treated with placebo.
None of the studies reported recovery time, patient satisfaction or quality of life.
There is some evidence for rhinoplasty that a single dose of corticosteroids decreases oedema (swelling) and ecchymosis (bruising) formation over the first two postoperative days, but the difference is not maintained after this period, indicating that the difference may be clinically insignificant.
There is also limited evidence that high doses of corticosteroids decrease both ecchymosis (bruising) and oedema (swelling) between the first and seventh postoperative days.
There is little evidence available regarding the safety of this intervention, and the clinical significance of this decrease is unknown.
More studies are needed because at present the available evidence does not support the use of corticosteroids for prevention of complications following facial plastic surgery.
We found 27 studies, involving 2319 participants, that looked at melatonin for treating preoperative anxiety, postoperative anxiety, or both.
Twenty-four studies compared melatonin with placebo.
Eleven studies compared melatonin to a benzodiazepine (seven studies with midazolam, three studies with alprazolam, and one study with oxazepam).
Other comparators in a small number of studies were gabapentin, clonidine, and pregabalin.
Melatonin probably reduces preoperative anxiety compared to placebo.
Melatonin may reduce immediate postoperative anxiety compared with placebo, and may reduce delayed postoperative anxiety six hours after surgery, when measured on a 0 to 100 mm visual analog scale (VAS) and State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI).
Melatonin probably results in little or no difference in preoperative anxiety measured on a scale of 0 to 100 mm (moderate-certainty evidence) and there may be little or no difference in immediate postoperative anxiety (low-certainty evidence).
Fourteen studies did not report on side effects.
Six studies specifically reported that no side effects were observed, and the remaining seven studies reported cases of nausea, sleepiness, dizziness, and headache; however, no serious adverse events were reported.
Eleven studies measured psychomotor and cognitive function, or both, and in general, these studies found that benzodiazepines impaired psychomotor and cognitive function more than placebo and melatonin.
Fourteen studies evaluated sedation and generally found that benzodiazepine caused the highest degree of sedation, but melatonin also showed sedative properties compared to placebo.
When compared with placebo, melatonin given as premedication (as tablets or sublingually) probably reduces preoperative anxiety in adults (measured 50 to 120 minutes after administration), which is potentially clinically relevant.
The effect of melatonin on postoperative anxiety compared with placebo (measured in the recovery room and six hours after surgery) was also evident but was much smaller, and the clinical relevance of this finding is uncertain.
There was little or no difference in anxiety when melatonin was compared with benzodiazepines.
We could not evaluate the efficacy of ECP in the treatment of cGvHD in children and adolescents after haematopoietic stem cell transplantation since the second review update again found no RCTs.
We searched the database for randomised controlled studies and found none, so that the evidence currently available comes from retrospective or observational studies.
Thus, ideally, ECP should be applied in the context of controlled trials only.
The mean follow-up period of all three included trials was less than five years.
In a sensitivity analysis including the two studies using the Amplatzer PFO occluder, TDC showed a possible protective effect on recurrent stroke compared with medical therapy; however, it did not reach statistical significance.
However, TDC increased the risk of new-onset atrial fibrillation and may be associated with the type of device used.
The data from recent trials have shown no significant difference in the prevention of recurrent ischemic stroke between TDC and medical therapy.
TDC closure was associated with an increased risk of atrial fibrillation but not with serious adverse events.
We found two randomised controlled trials (RCTs), in which 2343 people with AMD were randomised to receive either omega 3 fatty acid supplements or a placebo.
The number of adverse events was similar in the intervention and placebo groups.
This review found that omega 3 LCPUFA supplementation in people with AMD for periods up to five years does not reduce the risk of progression to advanced AMD or the development of moderate to severe visual loss.
We included two randomised controlled trials (106 participants) in this review.
Vitrification was associated with an increased clinical pregnancy rate compared to slow freezing.
The effect of vitrification compared with slow freezing on ongoing pregnancy rates was only reported in one small study, with inconclusive findings.
The evidence was limited by imprecision, meaning that the studies were small and the results were not reliable.
We assessed the included studies as at low to unclear risk of bias as the methods were not well described.
We included 12 RCTs, with 4704 participants, in this review.
The overall all-cause mortality in four trials that reported mortality was 1.0% and there were no significant differences in mortality between the intervention and control groups in each of the individual comparisons.
There were no antibiotic-related serious adverse events in any of the 561 people randomised to the seven different antibiotic regimens in four trials (three trials that reported mortality and one other trial).
None of the trials reported quality of life, total length of hospital stay or the use of healthcare resources.
Overall, 221/4032 (5.5%) people developed SSIs due to all organisms, and 46/4704 (1.0%) people developed SSIs due to MRSA.
In the 15 comparisons that compared one antibiotic regimen with another, there were no significant differences in the proportion of people who developed SSIs.
In the single trial that compared an antibiotic regimen with placebo, the proportion of people who developed SSIs was significantly lower in the group that received antibiotic prophylaxis with co-amoxiclav (or cefotaxime if allergic to penicillin) compared with placebo.
Co-amoxiclav prophylaxis decreases the proportion of people developing MRSA infections compared with placebo in people without malignant disease undergoing percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG) insertion, although this may be due to decreasing overall infection, thereby preventing wounds from becoming secondarily infected with MRSA.
There is currently no other evidence to suggest that using a combination of multiple prophylactic antibiotics or administering prophylactic antibiotics for an increased duration is of benefit to people undergoing surgery in terms of reducing MRSA infections.
High quality studies comparing different antibiotic regimens are necessary to determine which is most effective for the treatment of C. difficile infection.
Thirteen studies are awaiting classification.
For the comparison dexmedetomidine versus placebo (six studies, 402 participants), most studies found a reduction in use of opioid painkillers in the first 24 hours after surgery, together with in general no clinically important differences in pain after surgery in the first 24 hours.
Evidence for the comparison of dexmedetomidine versus fentanyl was insufficient to permit robust conclusions.
Dexmedetomidine, when administered perioperatively for acute pain after abdominal surgery in adults, seemed to have some opioid-sparing effect together with in general no important differences in postoperative pain when compared with placebo.
However, the quality of the evidence was very low as the result of imprecision, methodological limitations and substantial heterogeneity among the seven included studies.
The clinical importance for patients is uncertain, in as much as the influence of dexmedetomidine on patient-important outcomes such as gastrointestinal function, mobilization and adverse effects could not be satisfactorily determined.
A potential bias was a considerable quantity of unobtainable data from studies with mixed surgery.
Two randomised controlled trials recruiting a total of 413 patients met the criteria for inclusion in our review; one study had a low risk of bias and the other study had a high risk of bias.
One study recruited 201 children (aged six months to six years) who underwent myringotomy and ventilation tube insertion before they were discharged.
There was no significant difference in complications (e.g. ventilation tube extrusion) or hearing outcomes between the two study arms.
Water avoidance versus control
Another study recruited 212 children, aged three months to 12 years, who underwent myringotomy and ventilation tube insertion.
We are very uncertain about the effect of ear plugs on the rate of ear discharge (low quality evidence) and the effect of water avoidance on the rate of ear discharge (very low quality evidence) and we are even more uncertain about the effect of ear plugs on the rate of ear infection (very low quality evidence).
Some evidence suggests that advising children to avoid swimming or head immersion during bathing does not affect rates of ear infections, although good quality data are lacking in this area.
Currently, consensus guidelines therefore recommend against routine use of water precautions on the basis that the limited clinical benefit is outweighed by the associated cost, inconvenience and patient anxiety.
Future high-quality studies could be undertaken but may not be thought necessary.
It is uncertain whether further trials in this area would change the findings of this review or have an impact on practice.
Future research should focus on determining whether particular groups of children benefit more from water precautions than others, as well as on developing clinical guidelines and their implementation.
No data were found on disability progression and people who experienced relapses.
No significant differences were found for serious adverse events between the two groups.
Treatment with lamotrigine was associated with more rashes and transient, dose-related deterioration of mobility than placebo.
We will update this review when the three ongoing studies are completed.
The quality of evidence was judged to be very low due to the low number of available studies and included participants.
There is a lack of evidence to address the review question on the efficacy of sodium channel blockers for people with MS.
Further large scale high-quality studies are needed.
There was no clear evidence of a difference in the proportion of participants who developed superficial wound dehiscence between the two groups in the trials that reported this outcome.
We do not know whether this review reveals a lack of effect or lack of evidence of effect.
The confidence intervals for these outcomes were wide, and significant benefits or harms from subcutaneous closure cannot be ruled out.
None of the trials assessed the impact of subcutaneous closure on quality of life, long-term patient outcomes or financial implications to the healthcare provider.
There is currently evidence of very low quality which is insufficient to support or refute subcutaneous closure after non-caesarean operations.
Further well-designed trials at low risk of bias are necessary.
Nine studies (N = 531 participants, 469 included in analyses) investigated a variety of telerehabilitation interventions in adults with MS.
These interventions were complex, with more than one rehabilitation component and included physical activity, educational, behavioural and symptom management programmes.
All studies scored 'low' on the methodological quality assessment.
Overall, the review found 'low-level' evidence for telerehabilitation interventions in reducing short-term disability and symptoms such as fatigue.
There was also low-level evidence supporting telerehabilitation in the longer term for improved functional activities, impairments (such as fatigue, pain, insomnia); and participation measured by quality of life and psychological outcomes.
There were no adverse events reported as a result of telerehabilitation interventions.
We included eight studies (654 participants) in this review, which compared different types of painkillers with no analgesic or placebo.
Six of these studies (625 participants) contributed data to our primary analyses.
HFNC may have little to no effect on treatment failure, but the evidence is very uncertain.
The outcome of chronic lung disease (need for supplemental oxygen at 28 days of life) was reported in one study (375 participants) but there were no events in either group.
HFNC may have little to no effect on the duration of respiratory support (any form of non-invasive respiratory support with or without supplemental oxygen), but the evidence is very uncertain.
HFNC likely results in little to no difference in the length of stay at the intensive care unit (ICU).
HFNC may reduce the incidence of nasal trauma and abdominal overdistension, but the evidence is very uncertain.
The evidence suggests that HFNC may reduce treatment failure slightly.
Neither study reported results for the outcome of chronic lung disease (need for supplemental oxygen at 28 days of life).
HFNC may have little to no effect on the duration of respiratory support, length of stay at the ICU, or hospital length of stay, but the evidence is very uncertain.
Adverse events was an outcome reported in both studies but there were no adverse events in either group.
The certainty of evidence across outcomes ranged from moderate to very low, downgraded due to risk of bias, imprecision, indirectness, and inconsistency.
When compared with CPAP, HFNC may result in little to no difference in treatment failure.
HFNC may have little to no effect on the duration of respiratory support, but the evidence is very uncertain.
HFNC likely results in little to no difference in the length of stay at the intensive care unit.
HFNC may reduce the incidence of nasal trauma and abdominal overdistension, but the evidence is very uncertain.
When compared with LFNC, HFNC may reduce treatment failure slightly.
HFNC may have little to no effect on the duration of respiratory support, length of stay at the ICU, or hospital length of stay, but the evidence is very uncertain.
There is insufficient evidence to enable the formulation of evidence-based guidelines on the use of HFNC for respiratory support in term infants.
Further large, well-designed trials are required to further evaluate the possible health benefits or harms of HFNC in this patient population.
With unpublished data supplied by study authors, we examined data from participants with dementia only.
The first study investigated the immediate effects on aspiration of two viscosities of liquids (nectar thick and honey thick) compared to regular liquids in 351 people with dementia.
Regular liquids with a chin down head posture, as well as regular liquids without any intervention were also compared.
The second study, a parallel designed RCT, compared the effect of nectar and honey thick liquids with a chin down head posture over a three-month period in a subgroup of 260 participants with dementia.
The outcomes were pneumonia (infections) and adverse intervention effects (harmful side effects of the treatment).
Honey thick liquids, which are more consistent with descriptors for 'spoon thick' or 'extremely thick' liquids, showed a more positive impact on immediate elimination of aspiration during videofluoroscopy, but this consistency showed more adverse effects in the second follow-up study.
During the second three-month follow-up trial, there were more people who developed pneumonia in those who received honey thick liquids than in those receiving nectar thick liquids or regular liquids with a chin-down posture.
There were no deaths classified as 'definitely related' to the type of fluids prescribed.
Both studies were at high risk of bias.
The overall quality of evidence for outcomes in this review is low.
Further high-quality clinical trials are required.
We included two randomised controlled trials with a total of 514 pregnant women at a mean gestational age of 22 weeks.
One of the trials was sponsored by a drug company.
One trial compared ceftriaxone (125 mg, intramuscular) with cefixime (400 mg, oral); the other trial had three arms, and assessed ceftriaxone (250 mg, intramuscular) versus either amoxicillin (3 g, oral) plus probenecid (1 g, oral) or spectinomycin (2 g, intramuscular).
We did not include the spectinomycin data because this medication is no longer produced.
We were unable to combine the results from the trials, because the trials compared different medications.
We found that there was no clear difference in the cure of gonococcal infections (genital, extragenital, or both) between intramuscular ceftriaxone versus oral amoxicillin plus oral probenecid or intramuscular ceftriaxone versus oral cefixime.
Neither of the trials reported on two of the review's primary maternal outcomes: incidence of complicated pregnancy (miscarriage, premature rupture of membranes, preterm delivery, or fetal death), or on the incidence of neonatorum ophthalmia (an eye infection) in the newborns.
One trial reported one case of vomiting in the oral amoxacillin plus probenecid group.
Trials reported pain at the injection sites, but did not quantify it.
Hyperbilirubinemia was more frequent in neonates whose mothers were exposed to ceftriaxone.
There were no clear differences between groups for the number of babies with malformations.
We need more high-quality studies, with enough participants to assess the clinical effectiveness and potential harms of antibiotics in pregnant women with gonorrhoea.
It is uncertain whether breast surgery improves overall survival as the quality of the evidence has been assessed as very low.
The two studies did not report quality of life.
Breast surgery may improve local progression-free survival, while it probably worsened distant progression-free survival.
The two studies did not measure breast cancer-specific survival.
Side effects from local therapy were reported by 30-day mortality and did not appear to differ between the two groups.
Based on two studies, it is not possible to make definitive conclusions on the benefits and risks of breast surgery associated with systemic treatment for women diagnosed with metastatic breast cancer.
Until the ongoing clinical trials are finalised, the decision to perform breast surgery in these women should be individualised and shared between the physician and the patient considering the potential risks, benefits, and costs of each intervention.
In total, 2794 participants were randomised in 13 trials included in this review.
One trial (which included 53 participants) did not contribute any data to this review.
There was no difference in the proportion of participants who died within thirty days of treatment between laparoscopic gastrectomy and open gastrectomy.
None of the trials reported health-related quality of life, time to return to normal activity or time to return to work.
The differences in long-term death, serious adverse events within three months, long-term recurrence, adverse events within three months, the amount of blood transfused, length of hospital stay, and number of lymph nodes harvested were imprecise.
Based on low quality evidence, there is no difference in short-term mortality between laparoscopic and open gastrectomy.
Based on very low quality evidence, there is no evidence for any differences in short-term or long-term outcomes between laparoscopic and open gastrectomy.
We found 12 studies that included 803 children.
We identified three studies that are awaiting classification and two ongoing studies.
Indirect laryngoscopy and video laryngoscopy were associated with longer intubation times than direct laryngoscopy.
Researchers found no significant differences between direct and indirect laryngoscopy on assessment of success of the first attempt at intubation (11 trials; n = 749).
Five studies reported the effect of intubation on oxygen saturation (n = 272).
Five children had desaturation during intubation: one from the direct laryngoscopy group and four from the indirect laryngoscopy, or videolaryngoscopy, group.
Review authors had difficulty reaching conclusions on adverse haemodynamic responses and other adverse effects of intubation, as only a few children were reported to have these outcomes.
Use of indirect laryngoscopy, or videolaryngoscopy, might improve vocal cord view, but the results were very different between studies.
We evaluated the following scales: Cincinnati Prehospital Stroke Scale (CPSS; 11 studies), Recognition of Stroke in the Emergency Room (ROSIER; eight studies), Face Arm Speech Time (FAST; five studies), Los Angeles Prehospital Stroke Scale (LAPSS; five studies), Melbourne Ambulance Stroke Scale (MASS; three studies), Ontario Prehospital Stroke Screening Tool (OPSST; one study) and Medic Prehospital Assessment for Code Stroke (MedPACS; one study) and PreHospital Ambulance Stroke Test (PreHAST; one study).
Nine studies compared the accuracy of two or more scales.
We pooled the results from five studies evaluating ROSIER in the ER and five studies evaluating LAPSS in a prehospital setting.
We did not provide summary estimates for the rest of the scales, as the number of studies per test per setting was small, the risk of bias was high or uncertain, the results were very heterogeneous (not consistent), and/or a combination of these.
More research is needed to find out the absolute accuracy of the PALS, and whether other scales, such as MASS and ROSIER, which have similar sensitivity but higher specificity, should be used instead, to achieve better overall accuracy.
In the ER, ROSIER should be the test of choice, as it was evaluated in more studies than FAST and showed consistently high sensitivity.
In a cohort of 100 people of whom 62 have stroke/TIA, the test will miss on average seven people with stroke/TIA (ranging from three to 16).
We were unable to obtain an estimate of its summary specificity.
Because of the small number of studies per test per setting, high risk of bias, substantial differences in study characteristics and large between-study heterogeneity, these findings should be treated as provisional hypotheses that need further verification in better-designed studies.
We included 23 studies (from 35 reports) with a total of 11,170 caregiver-infant pairs who were randomly assigned to receive an educational intervention delivered to the caregiver or usual care.
Generally, the interventions were focused on the introduction of complementary feeding at the appropriate time, the types and amount of complementary foods to be fed to infants, and hygiene.
There was limited evidence of an effect for all growth outcomes.
Overall, we found evidence that education improves complementary feeding practices.
One study compared different platelet transfusion thresholds prior to insertion of a central venous catheter (CVC) in people with chronic liver disease.
We are still recruiting participants and the study is due to be completed in December 2017.
There were no studies that compared no platelet transfusions to a platelet transfusion threshold.
To detect an increase in the proportion of participants who had major bleeding from 1 in 100 to 2 in 100 would require a study containing at least 4634 participants.
The study involved 20 participants.
The quality of the evidence for the primary outcome was very low.
The study did not find a difference between interventions for the successful closure of an oro-antral communication (a hole between the mouth and the sinus) one month after the surgery.
We did not find any trials evaluating any other intervention for treating oro-antral communications or fistulae, due to dental procedures.
However, the evidence was insufficient to judge whether there is a difference in the effectiveness of these interventions as all oro-antral communications in the study were successfully closed by one month after surgery.
More studies are needed to inform clinical practice.
We included four RCTs with 253 participants, and all were at risk of bias (i.e. the study design may have misled us about the results).
We found one unpublished study comparing fibrin glue monotherapy with Bascom’s procedure, two studies evaluating fibrin glue as an adjunct to Limberg flap and one study evaluating fibrin glue as an adjunct to Karydakis flap.
For fibrin glue monotherapy compared with Bascom's procedure, there were no data available for the primary outcomes of time to healing and adverse events.
Fibrin glue as an adjunct to the Limberg flap may reduce the healing time from 22 to 8 days compared with the Limberg flap alone.
One study evaluating the use of glue as a flap adjunct did not report data for the primary outcome of time to healing.
It is uncertain whether fibrin glue with the Karydakis flap is associated with an increased risk of a postoperative fluid collection (adverse event) (very low-quality evidence, downgraded twice for risk of selection, performance and detection bias and for imprecision).
Fibrin glue as an adjunct to Karydakis flap may reduce length of stay but this is highly uncertain.
We found seven completed trials with 472 participants, and four ongoing trials recruiting 837 participants.
Of the seven completed trials, five trials (456 participants) compared a TPO mimetic versus placebo (four romiplostim trials, and one eltrombopag trial), one trial (eight participants) compared DDAVP with placebo, and one trial (eight participants) compared tranexamic acid with placebo.
In the DDAVP trial, the only outcome reported was the bleeding time.
In the tranexamic acid trial, there were methodological flaws (e.g. poor study design) and bleeding definitions were subject to significant bias.
Consequently, these trials could not be incorporated into the quantitative synthesis.
No randomised trial of artificial platelet substitutes, platelet-poor plasma, fibrinogen concentrate, rFVIIa, rFXIII, rIL6 or rIL11 was identified.
We assessed all five trials of TPO mimetics included in this review as being at high risk of bias because the trials were funded by the manufacturers of the TPO mimetics and the authors had financial stakes in the companies that funded the trials.
The quality of the evidence was very low to moderate.
There was insufficient evidence to detect a difference in the risk of death between those treated with a TPO mimetic and placebo.
There was a significant reduction in the number of participants receiving any platelet transfusion between those treated with TPO mimetics and placebo.
No trial reported the number of days of bleeding per participant, platelet transfusion episodes, mean red cell transfusions per participant, red cell transfusion episodes, transfusion-transmitted infections, formation of antiplatelet antibodies or platelet refractoriness.
We included 21 trials, recruiting 14,241 infants.
Five of the trials were conducted in high-income countries and the remaining 16 trials were conducted in middle- and low-income countries.
We found that nutrition education targeted at improving weaning-related feeding practices probably increases both weight-for-age and height-for-age by 12 months of age.
One trial that assessed effects of nutrition education on growth at six years reported an uncertain effect on change in height and body mass index z score.
Nutrition education for families of infants may reduce the risk of undernutrition in term-born infants (evidence of low to moderate certainty due to limitations in study design and substantial heterogeneity of included studies).
Further studies are needed to resolve this question.
One hundred and forty-five trials (36 placebo controlled and 109 before and after) evaluated the dose-related efficacy of fluvastatin in 18,846 participants.
The participants were of any age with and without evidence of cardiovascular disease.
Log dose-response data over doses of 2.5 mg to 80 mg revealed strong linear dose-related effects on blood total cholesterol and LDL cholesterol and a weak linear dose-related effect on blood triglycerides.
There was no dose-related effect of fluvastatin on blood HDL cholesterol.
Fluvastatin 10 mg/day to 80 mg/day reduced LDL cholesterol by 15% to 33%, total cholesterol by 11% to 25% and triglycerides by 3% to 17.5%.
Fluvastatin was about 12-fold less potent than atorvastatin and 46-fold less potent than rosuvastatin at reducing LDL cholesterol.
The study randomised another 113 participants to receive standard therapy including isotretinoin.
We judged the quality of the evidence for each intervention as moderate.
Further research is required to determine the harms and benefits of using the nasal spray.
Eleven studies lasted one week or longer and included a total of 949 participants with mostly moderate or severe pain.
None had a placebo only control; eight compared different NSAIDs, three an NSAID with opioid or opioid combination, and one both.
None compared an NSAID plus opioid with the same dose of opioid alone.
It was not possible to compare NSAIDs as a group with another treatment, or one NSAID with another NSAID.
Four studies (415 participants) showed that with NSAID, initially moderate or severe pain was reduced to no worse than mild pain after one or two weeks.
Adverse event and withdrawal reporting was inconsistent.
Two serious adverse events were reported with NSAIDs, and 22 deaths, but these were not clearly related to any pain treatment.
Common side effects were thirst/dry mouth, loss of appetite, somnolence (drowsiness), and dyspepsia (indigestion).
Two pharmaceutical company-sponsored trials compared modafinil with placebo, involving 102 participants, nearly all of whom had idiopathic hypersomnia without long sleep time.
Modafinil improved ability to remain awake on the Maintenance of Wakefulness Test by 4.74 minutes more than placebo.
The number of naps per week was no different between modafinil and placebo across two studies.
We only included the subset of trial data for those participants with idiopathic hypersomnia, per our protocol.
There were no significant differences between clarithromycin and placebo for the Epworth Sleepiness Scale, psychomotor vigilance testing, sleep inertia, other subjective ratings, or side effects.
There is insufficient evidence to conclude whether clarithromycin is effective for the treatment of idiopathic hypersomnia.
We included 35 randomised clinical trials with 3556 participants.
One trial compared Radix Sophorae flavescentis with placebo; the remaining 34 trials compared effects of Radix Sophorae flavescentis in addition to a co-intervention versus the same co-intervention.
The included trials assessed heterogenous forms and ways of administering Radix Sophorae flavescentis (e.g. oral capsules, oral tablets, intravenous infusion, intramuscular injection, acupoint (a specifically chosen site of acupuncture) injection) with treatment duration of 1 to 24 months.
Two of the trials included children up to 14 years old.
In two trials, participants had cirrhosis in addition to chronic hepatitis B.
Only one of the 35 trials assessed deaths, and no deaths occurred.
Ten trials assessed serious adverse events; no serious adverse events occurred.
None of the trials reported health-related quality of life, hepatitis B-related mortality, or morbidity.
Adverse events considered 'not to be serious' was an outcome in 19 trials; nine of these trials had zero events in both groups.
When we compared Radix Sophorae flavescentis versus placebo or no intervention, there was no difference in the number of adverse events considered 'not serious' (10 trials, 1050 participants).
Radix Sophorae flavescentis showed a reduction in the proportion of participants with detectable HBV-DNA and in the proportion of participants with detectable HBeAg.
Seven of the 35 randomised clinical trials received academic funding from government or hospital.
Four trials received no funding.
The remaining 24 trials provided no information on funding.
Additionally, 432 trials lacked the methodological information needed to ensure inclusion of these trials in our review.
We advise caution in interpreting results showing that Radix Sophorae flavescentis reduced the proportion of people with detectable HBV-DNA and detectable HBeAg because the trials reporting on these outcomes are at high risk of bias and both outcomes are non-validated surrogate outcomes.
The 86 participants had a wide range of disease severity (FEV1 ranged from 54% to 95%) and were 7 to 41 years old.
In one RCT, participants were hospitalised with an acute respiratory exacerbation, whilst the participants in three RCTs were clinically stable.
All four RCTs compared exercise either alone or in combination with another ACT, but these were too diverse to allow us to combine results.
Exercise versus active cycle of breathing technique (ACBT)
One cross-over trial (18 participants) compared exercise alone to ACBT.
24-hour sputum volume was less in the exercise group than with ACBT.
Exercise capacity, quality of life, adherence, hospitalisations and need for additional antibiotics were not reported.
Exercise plus postural drainage and percussion (PD&P) versus PD&P only
Two studies (55 participants) compared exercise and PD&P to PD&P alone.
We are uncertain whether exercise with PD&P improves lung function.
Other measures of lung function did not show clear evidence of effect.
One trial reported no difference in exercise capacity (maximal work rate) after two weeks.
There was no difference between groups in 24-hour sputum volume or in the mean duration of hospitalisation, although the six-month trial reported fewer hospitalisations due to exacerbations in the exercise and PD&P group.
Quality of life, ACT preference and need for antibiotics were not reported.
One trial compared exercise to underwater positive expiratory pressure (uPEP) (also known as bubble PEP).
There were no differences found in the total weight of sputum collected during treatment sessions.
The trial did not report the primary outcomes (lung function, quality of life, exercise capacity) or the secondary outcomes (other measures of lung function, adherence, need for antibiotics or hospitalisations).
We found 36 relevant studies and sampled 20 of these studies for our analysis.
Ten of these studies were from Asia, four from Africa, four from Central and North America and two from Australia.
The studies explored the views and experiences of nurses, doctors and other healthcare workers when dealing with severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS), H1N1, MERS (Middle East respiratory syndrome), tuberculosis (TB), or seasonal influenza.
Most of these healthcare workers worked in hospitals; others worked in primary and community care settings.
The review points to several barriers and facilitators that influenced healthcare workers’ ability to adhere to IPC guidelines.
The following factors are based on findings assessed as of moderate to high confidence.
Healthcare workers felt unsure as to how to adhere to local guidelines when they were lengthy and ambiguous or did not reflect national or international guidelines.
They could feel overwhelmed because local guidelines were constantly changing.
They also described how IPC strategies led to increased workloads and fatigue, for instance because they had to use PPE and take on additional cleaning.
Healthcare workers described how their responses to IPC guidelines were influenced by the level of support they felt that they received from their management team.
Clear communication about IPC guidelines was seen as vital.
But healthcare workers pointed to a lack of training about the infection itself and about how to use PPE.
They also thought it was a problem when training was not mandatory.
Other important practical measures described by healthcare workers included minimising overcrowding, fast-tracking infected patients, restricting visitors, and providing easy access to handwashing facilities.
A lack of PPE and provision of equipment that was of poor quality was a serious concern for healthcare workers and managers.
They also pointed to the need to adjust the volume of supplies as infection outbreaks continued.
Healthcare workers point to several factors that influence their ability and willingness to follow IPC guidelines when managing respiratory infectious diseases.
The review also highlights the importance of including all facility staff, including support staff, when implementing IPC guidelines.
We included 11 studies in this review.
All studies were from high-income countries.
The studies focused on doctors, nurses, pharmacists and others working in hospitals, clinics, pharmacies and nursing homes.
These healthcare workers discussed different types of vaccines, including influenza, pneumococcal and herpes zoster vaccines.
The review was carried out before COVID-19 vaccines were available.
We downgraded our confidence in several of the findings from high confidence to moderate, low or very low confidence.
One reason for this was that some findings were based on only small amounts of data.
Another reason was that the findings were based on studies from only a few countries, making us unsure about the relevance of these findings to other settings.
The healthcare workers who reported on their staff's knowledge of vaccines reported that older adults asked about vaccination to different extents, ranging from not asking about vaccines at all, to great demand for information (high confidence finding).
When the topic of vaccination was discussed, healthcare workers described a lack of information, and presence of misinformation, fears and concerns about vaccines among older adults (moderate confidence).
The ways in which healthcare workers discussed vaccines with older adults appeared to be linked to what they saw as the aim of vaccination communication.
Healthcare workers differed among themselves in their perceptions of this aim and about their own roles and the roles of older adults in vaccine decisions.
Some healthcare workers thought it was important to provide information but emphasised the right and responsibility of older adults to decide for themselves.
Others used information to persuade and convince older adults to vaccinate in order to increase 'compliance' and 'improve' vaccination rates, and in some cases to gain financial benefits.
Other healthcare workers tailored their approach to what they believed the older adult needed or wanted (moderate confidence).
Healthcare workers also thought that older adults' decisions could be influenced by factors such as the relationship between the healthcare worker and the patient, the healthcare worker's status (e.g. doctor, nurse, or caregiver), and the extent to which the healthcare worker led by example at home.
Our review also identified factors that are likely to influence how communication between healthcare workers and older adults take place.
These included issues tied to healthcare workers' views and experiences regarding the diseases in question and the vaccines; as well as their views and experiences of the organisational and practical implementation of vaccine services.
We found seven randomised controlled trials involving 5,682 women.
All trials were conducted in hospital settings.
Across seven trials (14 treatment arms), the following treatments were used: three arms (21%) used vaginal micronized progesterone; three arms (21%) used dydrogesterone; one arm (7%) used oral micronized progesterone; one arm (7%) used 17-α-hydroxyprogesterone (a steroid that was not approved for use in any country), and six arms (43%) used placebo.
The pre-specified subgroup analysis by number of previous miscarriages is only possible for vaginal micronized progesterone in women with threatened miscarriage.
The evidence for dydrogesterone compared with placebo for women with recurrent miscarriage is of very low-certainty evidence, therefore the effects remain unclear.
No data are available to assess the effectiveness of 17-α-hydroxyprogesterone or oral micronized progesterone for the outcome of live birth in women with recurrent miscarriage.
As a result, we can be fairly confident that the overall available evidence suggests that progestogens probably make little or no difference to live birth rate for women with threatened or recurrent miscarriage.
However, vaginal micronized progesterone may increase the live birth rate for women with a history of one or more previous miscarriages and early pregnancy bleeding, with likely no difference in adverse events.
There is still uncertainty over the effectiveness and safety of alternative progestogen treatments for threatened and recurrent miscarriage.
The remaining 22 studies (28 records) were identified as ongoing studies that may be eligible for inclusion in a future review update.
We found no studies that met our inclusion criteria.
We searched the medical literature up to 30 August 2023, and found no randomised controlled trials that met the inclusion criteria for this review.
This is a living systematic review (a research review that is updated to include new evidence).
We search for new evidence every month and update the review when we identify relevant new evidence.
Please refer to the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews for the current status of this review.
The studies focused on the effects of PROGRESS-Plus in populations experiencing health inequity (108 out of 158 studies), assessed how the effects of PROGRESS-Plus differed across PROGRESS-Plus participants (26 out of 158 studies), assessed how the effects of PROGRESS-Plus varied across PROGRESS-Plus participants (2 out of 158 studies) or used a combination of these approaches (20 out of 158 studies).
Five methodological approaches to consider health equity in systematic reviews of effectiveness were identified: 1) descriptive assessment of reporting and analysis in systematic reviews (140 of 158 studies used a type of descriptive method); 2) descriptive assessment of reporting and analysis in original trials (50 studies); 3) analytic approaches which assessed differential effects across one or more PROGRESS-Plus factors (16 studies); 4) applicability assessment (25 studies) and 5) stakeholder engagement (28 studies), which is a new finding in this update and examines the appraisal of whether stakeholders with lived experience of health inequity were included in the design of systematic reviews or design and delivery of interventions.
Reporting for both approaches (analytic and applicability) lacked transparency and was insufficiently detailed to enable the assessment of credibility.
There is a need for improvement in conceptual clarity about the definition of health equity, describing sufficient detail about how health equity is measured in the studies and for the use of appropriate analytic approaches (including subgroup analyses) and transparency in reporting of judgments required for applicability assessments in order to consider health equity in systematic reviews of effectiveness.
